Hey! This is Josh from The Mother Truckers
talking about country lead guitar. For me,
my approach towards country lead, I came from
a blue's background so I kept seeing the blue's
pentatonic scale every where and also I knew
my major scales and I tried to blend them
together. Country lead guitars mostly leans
twards the major sound but if you just take
it note for note, it doesn't have any balls
so I think what a lot of players did is they
sort of outlined some of the major scale so
instead of going, they would use this instead
so you could get that more bluesier sound.
So you could use those sort of bluesy runs
without it sounding too major or too poppy.
So that is sort of the approach I've used
trying sometimes to edit out some of the color
notes and that way I can use a lot of the
same bluesmix, same positions. Like here's
your classic pentatonic and here's your classic
major. Now I felt comfortable in the blues
and you can basically do the same thing in
country, not just in major position. That
was a little sloppy but obviously you have
to keep conscious of which note you are landing
on in the blues. so i wouldn't land on that
same, because that's a 6th note. So if I want
to resolve, I have to keep aware of where
my E notes are.
Stick with the major scales but try not to
stick to them too literally and put some bends
and a little blues inflection and a little
jazz anticipation and you will have a pretty
cool sound.